GT Reading Test 25 Section 1 - Emergency Procedures & Community Education
Details
GT Reading Mock Test 25:
|
Section 1
|
Section 2
|
Section 3
|
Section 1: Questions 1-14
Read the text below and answers to the questions
1-14
on your answer sheet.
GT Reading:
"
Emergency Procedures"
&
"Community Education"
Look at the information about the
Emergency Procedures
. Then answer questions
1-8
below.
EMERGENCY PROCEDURES
Revised July 2011
This applies to all persons on the school campus
In cases of emergency (e.g. fire), find the nearest teacher who will: send a messenger at full speed to the Office OR inform the Office via phone ext. 99.
PROCEDURE FOR EVACUATION
1.
Warning of an emergency evacuation will be marked by a number of short bell rings. (In the event of a power failure, this may be a hand-held bell or siren.)
2.
All class work will cease immediately.
3.
Students will leave their bags, books and other possessions where they are.
4.
Teachers will take the class rolls.
5.
Classes will vacate the premises using the nearest staircase. If these stairs are inaccessible, use the nearest alternative staircase. Do not use the lifts. Do not run.
6.
Each class, under the teacher’s supervision, will move in a brisk, orderly fashion to the paved quadrangle area adjacent to the car park.
7.
All support staff will do the same.
8.
The Marshalling Supervisor, Ms Randall, will be wearing a red cap and she will be waiting there with the master timetable and staff list in her possession.
9.
Students assemble in the quad with their teacher at the time of evacuation. The teacher will do a head count and check the roll.
10.
Each teacher sends a student to the Supervisor to report whether all students have been accounted for. After checking, students will sit down (in the event of rain or wet pavement they may remain standing).
11.
The Supervisor will inform the Office when all staff and students have been accounted for.
12.
All students, teaching staff and support personnel remain in the evacuation area until the All Clear signal is given.
13.
The All Clear will be a long bell ring or three blasts on the siren.
14.
Students will return to class in an orderly manner under teacher guidance.
15.
In the event of an emergency occurring during lunch or breaks, students are to assemble in their home-room groups in the quad and await their home-room teacher.
Questions 1-8
Complete the sentences below.
Choose
NO MORE THAN THREE WORDS
from the text for each answer.
Write your answers in boxes
1–8
on your answer sheet.
1. In an emergency, a teacher will either phone the office or ...................... .
2. The signal for evacuation will normally be several ...................... .
3. If possible, students should leave the building by the ...................... .
4. They then walk quickly to the ...................... .
5. ...................... will join the teachers and students in the quad.
6. Each class teacher will count up his or her students and mark ...................... .
7. After the ...................... , everyone may return to class.
8. If there is an emergency at lunchtime, students gather in the quad in ...................... and wait for their teacher.
Look at the information about
Community Education
. Then answer the
questions 9-14
below.
Community Education
SHORT COURSES: BUSINESS
Business Basics
Gain foundation knowledge for employment in an accounts position with bookkeeping and business basics through to intermediate level; suitable for anyone requiring knowledge from the ground up.
Code B/ED011
16th or 24th April 9am–4pm
Cost
$420
Bookkeeping
This course will provide students with a comprehensive understanding of bookkeeping and a great deal of hands-on experience.
Code B/ED020
19th April 9am–2.30pm (one session only so advance bookings essential)
Cost
$250
New Enterprise Module
Understand company structures, tax rates, deductions, employer obligations, profit and loss statements, GST and budgeting for tax.
Code B/ED030
15th or 27th May 6pm–9pm
Cost
$105
Social Networking – the Latest Marketing Tool
This broad overview gives you the opportunity to analyse what web technologies are available and how they can benefit your organisation.
Code B/ED033
1st or 8th or 15th June 6pm–9pm
Cost
$95
Communication
Take the fear out of talking to large gatherings of people. Gain the public-speaking experience that will empower you with better communication skills and confidence.
Code B/ED401
12th or 13th or 14th
July 6pm–9pm
Cost
$90
Questions 9-14
Do the following statements agree with the information given in the text?
In boxes
9-14
on your answer sheet, write
TRUE
if the statement agrees with the information
FALSE
if the statement contradicts the information
NOT GIVEN
if there is no information on this
9. Business Basics is appropriate for beginners.
10. Bookkeeping has no practical component.
11. Bookkeeping is intended for advanced students only.
12. The New Enterprise Module can help your business become more profitable.
13. Social Networking focuses on a specific website to help your business succeed.
14. The Communication class involves speaking in front of an audience.
Answer:
1. Send a messenger
2. Short bell rings
3. Searest staircase
4. Quadrangle
5. Support staff
6. The roll
7. All clear signal
8. Home-room groups
9. TRUE
10. FALSE
11. NOT GIVEN
12. NOT GIVEN
13. FALSE
14. TRUE
Show/ Hide Answers
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

GT Reading
Prev
Next