GT Reading Test 38 Section 1 - Volunteers & Camping in the bush
Details
GT Reading Mock Test 38:
|
Section 1
|
Section 2
|
Section 3
|
Section 1: Questions 1-14
Read the text below and answers questions
1-14
on your answer sheet.
You should take around
20 minutes
to complete this task.
GT Reading Sample -
"Volunteers"
&
"Camping in the bush"
Read the text below and answer
Questions 1–7
.
VOLUNTEERS
Thank you for volunteering to work one-on-one with some of the students at our school who need extra help.
SMOKING POLICY
Smoking is prohibited by law in the classrooms and anywhere on the school grounds.
SAFETY AND HEALTH
Volunteers are responsible for their own personal safety and should notify the school of any preexisting medical conditions. Prescription and any other medications that you normally carry with you must be handed into the school nurse on arrival and collected on departure. If you require them, the nurse will dispense them to you in her office.
SIGN IN
A signing book is located at office reception. Please sign this register every time you come to the school. This is important for insurance purposes and emergency situations. After signing the book, collect a Visitor’s badge from the office. This must be worn at all times when you are on school premises. Remember to return the badge afterwards.
MESSAGES
Teachers will communicate with volunteers via telephone, email or messages left at the office. Always ask for messages. You may communicate with teachers in the same way – the preferred method is to leave a memo in the relevant teacher’s pigeonhole. These can be found at the end of the corridor in the staffroom block.
WORK HOURS
We understand that your time commitment is entirely voluntary and therefore flexible. If your personal schedule should change and this affects your availability, please contact the Coordinator for Volunteers at the school on extension 402; alternatively, you could drop into her office situated in F block.
ROLE OF THE COORDINATOR
The Coordinator is responsible for matching volunteer tutors with students, organising tutorial rooms, ensuring student attendance and overseeing volunteer tutor training. If you encounter any problems, contact her as above.
Questions 1–7
Do the following statements agree with the information given in the text above?
In boxes
1–7
on your answer sheet, write:
TRUE
- if the statement agrees with the information
FALSE
- if the statement contradicts the information
NOT GIVEN
- if there is no information on this
1.
As a volunteer, you will be helping students individually.
2.
You may smoke in the playground.
3.
You cannot take any medicine while at the school.
4.
If you forget to sign the register, you won’t be insured for accidents.
5.
The best way of communicating with teachers is in writing.
6.
You can choose your own hours of work.
7.
The coordinator keeps student attendance rolls.
Read the text below and answer
Questions 8–14
.
CAMPING IN THE BUSH
MINIMAL IMPACT
BUSH WALKING
Responsible campers observe minimal impact bush walking practices. This is a code of ethics and behaviour aimed at preserving the natural beauty of bush walking areas.
PLANNING
Good planning is the key to safe and successful camping trips. Obtaining a camping permit in advance of leaving to camp out overnight in a national park is obligatory. Bookings are also compulsory for some parks. There could be limits on group sizes in some parks. Occasionally campsites may be closed owing to bush-fire danger or for other reasons. Always obtain permission from the owner prior to crossing private property.
EQUIPMENT
As well as your usual bush walking gear, you will need the right equipment for camping. A fuel stove and fuel for cooking is essential: not only is it safer, faster and cleaner; but it is easier to use in wet weather. It is recommended that you pitch a freestanding tent which requires few pegs and therefore has less eco-logical impact. Take a sleeping mat, if you have one, to put your sleeping bag on for a more comfortable night’s sleep. You will also need a hand trowel to bury human waste – for proper sanitation and hygiene.
CAMPFIRES
The traditional campfire actually causes a huge amount of environmental damage. If you gather firewood, you are removing the vital habitat of insects, reptiles, birds and small mammals. When campfires lead to bush-fires, they create enormous danger to native bush inhabitants and bush-walkers alike and result in destruction of the environment. Under no circumstances should you light a fire in the bush.
CAMPSITES
Erect your tent at an existing site if possible; otherwise try to find a spot where you won’t damage vegetation. Never cut branches or move rocks or disturb the soil unnecessarily. Aim to leave your campsite as you found it or even cleaner.
RUBBISH
Remove all rubbish – carry it out with you. Don’t attempt to burn or bury rubbish because this creates a fire hazard and/or disturbs the soil. Animals can dig up buried rubbish and scatter it about. Never feed the local wildlife – carry out all food scraps as these disturb the natural nutrient balance and can create weed problems.
WALK SAFELY
Keep on the track. Wear footwear suitable for the terrain. Take a map.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Questions 8–14
The passage refers to three ways in which campers should behave.
Classify the following behaviours as something that campers
A must do
B may do
C must not do
Write the correct letter
A, B
or
C
, in boxes
8–14
on your answer sheet.
8.
get the landowner’s consent before walking across his land
9.
Use a sleeping mat
10.
Make a campfire in the bush
11.
Feed the birds
12.
Use a freestanding tent
13.
Dig a hole to bury rubbish in
14.
Get authorisation before setting out to camp in a national park
Answer:
Show/ Hide Answers
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

GT Reading
Prev
Next