GT Reading Test 60: Section 1 - Inland Mail Claim Form & Days Out For The Family
Details
General Training Reading Mock Test 60:
|
Section 1
|
Section 2
|
Section 3
|
SECTION 1:
Questions 1 - 14
You should spend about
20
minutes on Questions
1-14
, which are based on Reading Passages below.
Write answers to questions in boxes
1-14
on your answer sheet.
GT Reading Sample -
"Lost, Damaged or Delayed Inland Mail Claim Form"
&
"Days out for the family"
Read the text below and answer
Questions 1-8
.
Lost, Damaged or Delayed Inland Mail Claim Form
Before completing this claim form for lost, damaged or delayed mail you should visit www.royalmail.com to find out all you need to know about our policies. Alternatively you can get the details from our "Mail Made easy" booklet, available at any local post office branch. When you fill in the form, make sure you complete it in full, using the checklist that we have provided to help you. If you find that you do not have the evidence required to make a claim but world like us to investigate an issue with your mail service, the easiest way to do this is by visiting our website.
Lost items
If you wish to claim compensation for lost items, you should send us original proof of posting, e.g. a Post Office receipt. If claiming for the contents of a package, you also need to provide proof of value, e.g. till item reference number, receipt, bank statement etc.
Damaged items
When claiming compensation for lost items that have been damaged, you should send us the items themselves, if possible. However, if these are very large or unsafe to post, you may instead provide photographs as evidence of the damage. Please retain the original packaging (and damaged items, if not sent to us) as we may need to inspect them.
Time restrictions
We allow up to 15 working days for items to arrive, so cannot accept a claim for loss unless 15 working days or more have passed since the items was posted.
Claims for lost or damaged items must be made within 12 months of the postal date. Claims for delayed item must be submitted within 3 months of the date they were posted if the claim is made by the sender, or within 1 month of receipt if the claim is made by the recipient of the item.
Questions 1-7
Complete the notes below.
Choose
NO MORE THAN TWO WORDS AND /OR A NUMBER
from the text for each answer.
Write your answer in boxes 1-7 on your answer sheet
Claiming compensation from the Royal Mail for lost, damaged or delayed mail
Before filling the form
•  go online to learn about their policies or get the
1
………………… that contains the relevant information.
When filling in the form
•  refer to the
2
………………… to ensure all the relevant sections are completed.
(you can use their
3
…………………to request action if you don’t have enough proof to make a claim).
When claiming compensation for a lost item
•  include proof that you have posted the item.
•  in the case of a package include something ( e.g. bank statement ) to prove its 4 …………………
When claiming for the cost of a damaged item, include
•  either the actual item or
5
………………… showing the damage to the item.
(you should keep the
6
………………… that was used when the item was originally sent.)
When to claim
•  Lost or damaged items: within 12 months of posting the claim.
•  Delayed items: if you are the
7
…………………, you must claim within three months of posting the package.
Read the text below and answer Questions
8-14.
Days out for the family
A.  Carrickfergus Castle
Considered to be Northern Ireland’s oldest castle, Carrickfergus has seen more than 800 years of military occupation since its foundations were laid, During summer, traditional feasts are served, and fairs and craft markets provide an extra attraction. The history of the castle is explained and brought to life with exhibits and guided tours.
B.  Glamis Castle
Shakespeare used Glamis as the background when he wrote one of his best-known plays,
Macbeth
and the Queen Mother Grew up here. It is also rumoured to have a secret chamber in the walls of the castle. There are many ghost tales associated with this castle, which will capture the imagination of younger visitors.
C.  Tintagel Castle
High up on the cliff tops, Tintagel Castle is the legendary home of king Arthur. The visitor's guide on sale at the reception is well worth of the money, as it can help you to visualise what it would have been like hundreds of years ago. you can park in the village car park and walk the half mile to the castle, or take the shuttle bus.
D.  Pickering Castle
Built by William the conqueror, this is a great castle for children to run around in. There are lots of special events too, including a chance to come along and see some plays which are put on during the summer months. Nearby Helmsley Castle is also worth a visit.
E.  Stokesay Castle
A range of workshops, including music and combat, are held here during the summer, children of all ages will enjoy learning at these and there is a guided tour which has been especially designed with younger visitors in mind. Some of them may find the dungeon quite scary though.
F.  Warwick Castle
This castle is over 1,000 years old and has towers and a moat, and is just as you might imagine a castle to be. Children can even get to try on armour to see how heavy it is. At Christmas, a special market id held here – a great opportunity to look for presents and Christmas treats.
Questions 8-14
Look at the description of six castles,
A-F
.
For which castle are the following statements true?
Write the correct letter
A-F
, in boxes 8-14 on your answer sheet.
NB
you may use any letter more than once.
8.
At certain times of the year you can eat special meals here.
9.
Children can get dressed up here.
10.
There is another castle in the same area.
11.
A lot of stories are told about this place.
12.
Parts of the castle may be frightening for some children.
13.
Play are performed here during part of the year.
14.
A guided tour is offered which is particularly suitable for children.
Answer:
Answer:
1. booklet
2. checklist
3. website
4. value
5. (provide) photograph(s) / photos
6. (original) packaging
7. sender
8. A
9. F
10. D
11. B
12. E
13. D
14. E
Show/ Hide Answers
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

GT Reading
IELTS GT reading Sample
General Training Reading
Prev
Next