GT Reading Test 60 Section 2 - North Sydney Council & Registering As An Apprentice
Details
General Training Reading Mock Test 60:
|
Section 1
|
Section 2
|
Section 3
|
SECTION 2:
Questions 15 - 27
You should spend about
20
minutes on Questions
15-27
, which are based on Reading Passages below.
Write answers to questions in boxes
15-27
on your answer sheet.
GT Reading Sample -
"North Sydney Council"
&
"Registering As An Apprentice"
Read the text below and answer
Questions 15-20
.
North Sydney Council
North Sydney Council recognises the importance of balancing the demands of your work with the demands of your personal life.
The standard working week for full-time council employees is 35 hours For ‘Indoor Staff’ and 38 hours for ‘Outdoor Staff’, worked over 5 days. Indoor staff are able to access the beneﬁt of ﬂexi time. A number of these occasionally work from home where appropriate – an example of an initiative that can provide ﬂexibility at certain stages of an employee’s career.
Staff are entitled to 3 weeks per annum sick or carer’s leave. In addition to the normal parental leave/maternity leave provisions, women who have completed 12 months of continuous service can access a total of 9 Weeks’ maternity leave that can be taken either as 9 weeks at full pay or as 18 weeks at half pay.
The annual entitlement to paid holidays is 20 days, pro-rata for part-time. After 5 years of continuous service, employees are entitled to 6.5 weeks Long Service Leave (LSL).
Our Financial Advice Program is conducted in partnership with FuturePlus Financial Services. We provide the services of advisors specialising in pensions, and all our employees are given the opportunity to meet them as part of the induction process.
The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is a counselling service provided at no charge to all employees and their families. The service is available by phone or face to face. The EAP provides registered psychologists for employees wishing to discuss work or non-work matters conﬁdentially. Employees can also access information, such as articles and self assessments, online via eapdirect.
Questions 15-20
Answer the questions below.
Choose
NO MORE THAN TWO WORDS AND/OR A NUMBER
from the text for each answer.
Write your answers in boxes 15-20 on your answer sheet.
15.
Which employees may choose not to work regular hours?
16.
How much time off each year is an employee able to take to look after a relative?
17.
What kind of leave involves a choice between two alternative periods of time?
18.
How long must employees have worked without a break before being entitled to additional holidays?
19.
What does the Financial Advice Program advise staff about?
20.
What kind of professional people can employees see if they want to talk about their job in private?
Read the text below and answer Questions
21-27
.
Registering As An Apprentice
If you are keen to acquire new skills and learn best through ‘hands-on’ experiences, then registered apprenticeship is a good option for you. These programmes always involve work experience as well as classroom instruction and produce workers skilled in the occupation. There is a written contract to be signed by the apprentice and the employer, which acknowledges their joint commitment to the training process. This contract is approved and registered by the New York State Department of Labor.
How Do I Qualify?
First of all you must meet the employer’s minimum qualiﬁcations. This could be a high school diploma or the equivalent. However, some employers will ask for speciﬁc high school courses, prior experience, or occupationally related courses.
What Is My Training Like?
Training for each apprenticeable occupation is conducted according to a training outline that has been standardized for the occupation. This assures that apprentices across the state have the same sets of basic competencies and skills. At the successful completion of each registered apprenticeship, the Department of Labor awards the apprentice a ‘Certiﬁcate of Completion’, which is a nationally recognized credential.
The length of time it takes you to learn the skills of the occupation depends upon two things: the standard training outline and your aptitude. Each trade has a deﬁnite term of training, listed in years. As a registered apprentice, you may progress according to that established training term, or you may become skilled more quickly or more slowly. It may even be that you start your apprenticeship with credit toward the goal. Your employer may choose to award you this for previous working experience in the occupation, or for prior coursework related to the occupation.
As an apprentice, you are part of the employer’s workforce. You work full-time for the employer. A registered apprentice works under the guidance of more experienced craft workers called journey workers. From them, you learn the skills of the trade. As you master each skill, you become a more productive employee.
At the same time as you are working, you are also required to attend classes (usually in the evenings). The location and times of these are set up by the local education agent in consultation with the employer. Your progress is tracked by you, your employer and your education provider.
Successful completion of all requirements results in your certiﬁcate.
Questions 21-27
Complete the sentences below.
Choose
NO MORE THAN TWO WORDS
from the text for each answer.
Write your answers in boxes 21-27 on your answer sheet.
21.
You and your employer will need to sign a ………………… before training starts.
22.
Employers may have different minimum requirements regarding applicants’ ………………… and experience.
23.
Each industry has its own standardised …………………of training.
24.
You may be given credit for work experience or if you have done relevant …………………
25.
You will be considered as a member of the ………………… during the apprenticeship.
26.
While at work, apprentices are supervised by what are known as ………………… .
27.
Employers are consulted when deciding the ………………… and schedule for lessons.
Answer:
Answer:
15. indoor staff / indoor employees
16. 3 weeks / three weeks
17. maternity / maternity leave
18. 5 years / five years
19. pension / pensions
20. psychologists / registered psychologists
21. contract / written contract
22. qualifications / courses
23. outline / term
24. coursework/ prior coursework
25. workforce / employer's workforce
26. journey workers
27. location
Show/ Hide Answers
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

GT Reading
IELTS GT reading Sample
GT Reading Passage
Prev
Next