GT Reading Test 9 Section 1 - Summer activities & Visit to the parliament
Details
GT Reading Mock Test 9:
|
Section 1
|
Section 2
|
Section 3
|
Section 1: Questions 1-14
You should spend about
20
minutes on Questions
1-14
.
GT Reading Sample:
Summer activities in the south-west area
&
Visit
to
the parliament
building
Read the text below and answer Questions
1-8.
Summer activities in the south-west area
A
Guided walk in the Poltesco Valley, now a wooded haven for wildlife, but once the centre of a successful stone- polishing industry. Comfortable footwear is recommended.
Meet at Poltesco car park.
£2 per person.
B
Enjoy a film at the floating cinema, surrounded by the beauty of the Helford River, and from the comfort of your own rowing boat as you tie up at the quay. Weather-dependent.
£6.50 per adult.
C
Rare chance to visit the only Cold War early warning bunker in the area, equipped as it was when it was operational. Tours led by ex-members of the military unit which once manned the bunker. Park at Kilbrick Cove and walk to Nare Head. Restricted access via a vertical ladder is unsuitable for some.
Booking essential.
Donations welcome.
D
The chance to camp in a wooded creek on the Fowey River.
Activities and talks, e.g. trekking preparation, search and rescue, and camping skills.
Singing around the campfire after dark.
£15 per person
E
Jazz picnic in the grounds of Buckland Abbey featuring the Roger Mark jazz band.
Bring your own picnic (and umbrella).
£10 per person
F
Have a go at ‘putting on the style’ and come dancing in the large Drawing Room of historic Knighsthayes Court.
£12.50 includes tea and cakes.
No high heels, please!
G
Family fun day on the beach. Arts and crafts, face painting, kite making, juggling, races, coconut shy, tractor rides and more! Some activities £1, lots for free. Meet at Llansallos Cove.
H
Barbecue and a talk on bats, followed by a chance to see Greater Horseshoe bats emerging from their cliff-top roost as it gets dark. Meet at the park near Pentireglaze Farm.
Bring barbecue food. Best to arrive early as places are limited.
£2 per person.
Questions 1–8
For which activity are the following statements true?
Write the correct letter,
A–H
, in boxes
1–8
on your answer sheet.
NB
You may use any letter more than once.
1.   You are not allowed to wear shoes of a certain style.
2.   This activity may be cancelled if it rains heavily.
3.   You need to reserve a place in advance to do this activity.
4.   This activity will take place on the site of a former business.
5.   You need some climbing ability to participate in this activity.
6.   There will be suitable things to do for both adults and children.
7.    Musicians will provide the entertainment.
8.    Refreshments are included in the price.
Read the letter below, and answer questions 9–14.
Dear Ms Foster,
Visit to the parliament building
I am pleased to confirm the following date and time for your visit, which is free of charge:
18th June at 15.30 hours (scheduled admission) for the two people you specified when registering.
Participants are requested to come to the welcome centre for visitors to the Reichstag building, which is located on Scheidemann Street, next to the west portal of the building, no later than 15 minutes before their visit is due to begin (i.e. 15.15 hours), to allow time for the security checks prior to entry. They must each bring a valid identity card or an equivalent form of photo identification with them, and must also show this letter on arrival. Group leaders must ensure that participants come to the admission point as a group.
We reserve the right to reschedule or cancel visits at short notice due to special events being held or heightened security requirements.
On the roof terrace, you can obtain an audio-guide to the dome of the Reichstag Building, which provides a great deal of interesting information about the Reichstag Building and its surroundings, the German Bundestag, the work of the parliament, and the sights you can see from the dome. The audio-guide is available in ten languages: Dutch, English, French, German, Italian, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish and Turkish. A special audio-guide is available for children (German only).
Cameras are permitted as long as the pictures are for personal rather than for commercial use. Equipment will be checked at the security desk on arrival.
The Berlin Reichstag is the only parliamentary building in the world that features a public restaurant; Restaurant Kaefer and its roof garden are located on the top of the Reichstag, offering breakfast, lunch and dinner at reasonable prices – breathtaking views included.
I wish you an enjoyable and informative visit to the German Bundestag.
Kind Regards,
Questions 9–14
Do the following statements agree with the information given in the text?
Write next to questions 9–14 on your answer sheet:
TRUE
if the statement agrees with the information
FALSE
if the statement contradicts the information
NOT GIVEN
if there is no information on this
9.   Visitors should be at the welcome centre at least a quarter of an hour before their scheduled admission time.
10.   Visitors have to produce either photo ID or their official letter before being allowed into the parliament building.
11.   If their visit is cancelled, visitors will receive a phone call or an email.
12.   There is no charge for use of the audio-guides.
13.   Visitors are forbidden to take photos inside the parliament building.
14.  Meals are available at the restaurant throughout the day.
Answer:
1. F
2. B
3. C
4. A
5. C
6. G
7. E
8. F
9. TRUE
10. FALSE
11. NOT GIVEN
12. NOT GIVEN
13. FALSE
14 TRUE
Show/ Hide Answers
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

GT Reading
Prev
Next