GT Reading Test 10 Section 1 - Causton Health Centre & Bentley Hospital Catering Service
Details
GT Reading Mock Test 10:
|
Section 1
|
Section 2
|
Section 3
|
Section 1: Questions 1-14
You should spend about 20 minutes on Questions
1-14
, which are based on Reading Passages below.
GT Reading Sample:
Auston Health Centre Patient Information Leaflet
&
Bentley Hospital Catering Service
Read the text below and answer Questions
1-9.
CAUSTON HEALTH CENTRE PATIENT INFORMATION LEAFLET
A. Appointments:
Please telephone 826969 (8.30am - 5.00pm: Mon - Fri). We suggest that you try to see the same doctor whenever possible because it is helpful for both you and your doctor to know each other well. We try hard to keep our appointments running on time, and ask you to be punctual to help us achieve this; if you cannot keep an appointment, please phone in and let us know as soon as possible so that it can be used for someone else. Please try to avoid evening appointments if possible. Each appointment is for one person only. Please ask for a longer appointment if you need more time.
B. Weekends and Nights:
Please telephone 823307 and a recorded message will give you the number of the doctor from the Centre on duty. Please remember this is in addition to our normal working day. Urgent calls only please. A Saturday morning emergency surgery is available between 9.30am and 10.00am. Please telephone for home visits before 10.00am at weekends.
C. Centre Nurses:
Liz Stuart, Martina Scott and Helen Stranger are available daily by appointment to help you with dressings, ear syringing, children's immunisations, removal of stitches and blood tests. They will also advise on foreign travel, and can administer various injections and blood pressure checks. For any over 75s unable to attend the clinic, Helen Stranger will make a home visit. AII three Centre Nurses are available during normal working hours to carry out health checks on patients who have been on doctors' lists for 3 years.
D. New Patients:
Within 3 months of registering with the Centre, new patients on regular medication are invited to attend a health check with their doctor. Other patients can arrange to be seen by one of the Centre Nurses.
E. Services Not Covered:
Some services are not covered by the Centre e.g. private certificates, insurance, driving and sports medicals, passport signatures, school medicals and prescriptions for foreign travel. There are recommended fees for these set by the National Medical Association. Please ask at reception.
F. Receptionists:
Our receptionists provide your primary point of contact — they are all very experienced and have a lot of basic information at their fingertips. They will be able to answer many of your initial queries and also act as a link with the rest of the team. They may request brief details of your symptoms or illness - this enables the doctors to assess the degree of urgency.
G. Change of Address:
Please remember to let us know if you decide to relocate. It is also useful for us to have a record of your telephone number.
Questions 1-4
Reading Passage '
Causton Health Centre Patient Information Leaflet
' has seven sections,
A-G
.
Which paragraph contains the following information?
Write the correct letter
A-G
in boxes
1-4
on your answer sheet.
1.
what to do if you need help outside normal working hours
2.
who to speak to first for general information
3.
what happens when you register with the Centre
4.
what to do if you need to cancel a doctor's appointment
Questions 5-9
Do the following statements agree with the information given in Reading Passage above?
In boxes
5-9
on your answer sheet, write
TRUE
if the statement agrees with the text
FALSE
if the statement contradicts the text
NOT GIVEN
if no information is given about it
5.
You must always see the same doctor if you visit the Centre.
6.
If you want a repeat prescription you must make an appointment.
7.
Helen Stranger is the Head Nurse.
8.
It is possible that receptionists will ask you to explain your problem.
9.
You should give the Health Centre your new contact details if you move house.
Read the text below and answer Questions
10-14.
BENTLEY HOSPITAL CATERING SERVICE
TO ALL PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY MEMBERS OF STAFF
IMPORTANT INFORMATION
Meal Breaks
(minimum company guidelines)
Hours Worked
Break To be Taken
0-4 hrs
nil
4-6 hrs
15 mins
6-8 hrs
30 mins
8-12 hrs
60 mins (taken as 2 x 30 mins)
12-24 hrs
75 mins (taken as 2 x 30 mins + 1 x 15 mins)
Your section staffing board will show the times when these breaks are to be taken.
Please note
It is your responsibility to check that the total break time shown on the staffing sheets accurately reflects the breaks that you take. Any discrepancies should be raised with your Staff Co-ordinator immediately.
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS - FOOD HANDLERS
Food handlers are those concerned with preparing and serving unwrapped food. Food handlers should report any instance of sickness, diarrhoea and/or stomach upset experienced either while at work or during a holiday to a member of the Personnel Management team. Any infections of ear, nose, throat, mouth, chest or skin should also be reported to a member of the Personnel Management team. Food handlers need to have an annual dental examination by the company dentist. Alternatively, a current certificate of dental fitness may be produced from their own dentist. This applies to all permanent staff who handle food.
Questions 10-14
Complete each sentence with the correct ending,
A-J
, below.
Write the correct letter,
A-J
, in boxes
10-14
on your answer sheet.
10.
Temporary employees only working 3 hours should .....
11.
Employees who work 11 hours should .....
12.
To find out when to have their breaks, employees should .....
13.
Employees working with food must .....
14.
Food handlers who have been ill should .....
A.
talk to a staff co-ordinator.
B.
have two thirty-minute breaks.
C.
not take any breaks for meals.
D.
pay for any meals they have.
E.
get a single one-hour break.
F.
look at the section staffing board.
G.
lose pay for their break times.
H.
tell a member of the Personnel Management team.
I.
have an annual dental examination.
J.
consult their doctor.
Answer:
Answer:
1. B
2. F
3. D
4. A
5. FALSE
6. NOT GIVEN
7. NOT GIVEN
8. TRUE
9. TRUE
10. C
11. B
12. F
13. I
14. H
Show/ Hide Answers
Need an explanation for the answers provided?
Visit '
Answer Explanation - Causton Health Centre & Bentley Hospital Catering Service
'
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

GT Reading
Prev
Next