GT Reading Test 10 Section 2 - Bramley College & Using the Internet and CD-ROM databases
Details
GT Reading Mock Test 10:
|
Section 1
|
Section 2
|
Section 3
|
Section 2: Questions 15-27
You should spend about 20 minutes on Questions
15-27
, which are based on Reading Passages below.
GT Reading Sample:
Bramley College International Scholarships
&
Using the Internet and CD-ROM databases in the Library
Questions 15-21
Reading Passage "
Bramley College International Scholarships
" has six sections,
A-G
.
Which paragraph contains the following information?
Write the correct letter
A-G
in boxes
15-21
on your answer sheet.
NB
You may use any letter more than once
15.
It is awarded on results obtained in the SCE exam.
16.
It is only available to students from the College's overseas branch.
17.
It is not offered every year.
18.
Students need to apply for it.
19.
It is offered twice each year.
20.
It pays 100% of the student's tuition fees.
21.
It provides 50% of one year's fees.
Bramley College International Scholarships
There are seven types of scholarship offered by Bramley College to enrolled international students to assist with the costs of their courses. With the exception of applications for scholarship category E, all newly-enrolled international students are automatically considered for these scholarships. The scholarship is awarded in the student's first year as a credit to second-semester course fees. In all subsequent years, the scholarship is awarded as a credit to first-semester course fees. The scholarships are awarded once per year unless otherwise stated.
The scholarship categories are:
A.
One scholarship of A$2000 for the most outstanding students entering the Foundation Studies Program from each of the following countries: Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand. An additional six scholarships are available for students from other countries. These scholarships are offered on two dates, to students in the March and June intakes of the program. Scholarships are awarded on the basis of first semester results.
B.
Three scholarships providing 25% of course fees for the duration of the course to the three most outstanding State Certificate of Education (SCE) students entering a Diploma or Certificate program. Scholarships are awarded on the basis of the previous year's SCE results.
C.
Seventeen scholarships providing 25% of course fees for the duration of the course to outstanding Diploma or Certificate students entering each Bramley College School: three each in the Schools of Business and Engineering; two in the School of Applied Science; two in the School of Environmental Design and Construction; two in the School of Art and Design; two in the School of Social Sciences and Communications; one in the School of Biomedical and Health Science; one in the School of Education and one in the School of Nursing. Scholarships are awarded on the basis of first semester results.
D.
One scholarship of A$4000 per annum for the duration of the course to the most outstanding student entering the Diploma in Communication. Scholarships are awarded on the basis of first semester results.
E.
Nine scholarships of A$3000 per annum for the duration of the course to the most outstanding students commencing any Advanced Certificate course. Scholarships are awarded on the basis of Basic Certificate results (not SCE results). Note that applicants need to apply for this scholarship on the Bramley College International Scholarship Application Form.
F.
One full-fee scholarship to the most outstanding student commencing a Diploma in Art and Design (Photography) course. This scholarship is offered every second year, and is awarded on the basis of results obtained in the Certificate in Design course.
G.
Four half-fee scholarships to outstanding students of Bramley College's Singapore campus for the final year of the two-year Certificate in Business Studies to be completed in Melbourne, Australia. Scholarships are awarded on the basis of first-year results.
Read the text below and answer Questions
22-27
.
Using the Internet and CD-ROM databases in the Library
Bramley College now has full electronic information resources in the College Library to help you in your studies. On CD-ROM in the library, we have about fifty databases, including many statistical sources. Want to know the average rainfall in Tokyo or the biggest export earner of Vanuatu? It's easy to find out. Whether you are in the School of Business or the School of Art & Design, it's all here for you.
You can conduct your own CD-ROM search for no charge, and you can print out your results on the library printers using your library photocopying card. Alternatively, you can download your results to disk, again for no charge, but bring your own formatted floppy disk or CD-ROM. If you are not sure how to conduct a search for yourself, library staff can do it for you, but we charge $20 for this service, no matter how long or how short a time it takes.
All library workstations have broadband access to the Internet, so you can find the web-based information you need quickly and easily If you are unfamiliar with using the Internet, help is available in several ways. You can start with the online tutorial Netstart; just click on the Netstart Icon on the Main Menu. The tutorial will take you through the basic steps to using the Internet, at any time convenient to you. If you prefer, ask one of the librarians for internet advice (best at quiet times between 9.00am and 11.30am weekdays) or attend one of the introductory group sessions that are held in the first two weeks of each term. Sign your name on the list on the Library Bulletin Board to guarantee a place, as they are very popular.
A word of warning: demand for access to library workstations is very high, so you are strongly advised to book a workstation, and we have to limit your use to a maximum of one hour at any one time. Make your booking (for which you will receive a receipt) at the Information Desk or at the enquiry desks in the Media Services Area (Level 1). Also, use of the computers is limited to Bramley students only, so you may be asked to produce your Student Identification Card to make a booking, or while using the workstations.
Questions 22-27
Choose the correct letter
A, B, C
or
D
.
Write the correct letter in boxes
22-27
on your answer sheet.
22.
To use the library printers, students must have
A. a floppy disk
B. correct change in coins
C. a photocopying card
D. their own paper
23.
To copy search results to a floppy disk, students pay
A. $20
B. no fee
C. a fee based on actual costs
D. a fee dependent on the time taken
24.
If library staff search for information on CD-ROM, students pay
A. $20
B. no fee
C. a fee based on actual costs
D. a fee dependent on the time taken
25.
Students can learn to use the Internet
A. at all times
B. in the first two weeks of term only
C. Monday to Friday only
D. between 9.00 am and 11.30 am only
26.
To ensure efficient access to the library workstations, students should
A. queue to use a workstation in the Media Services Area
B. reserve a time to use a workstation
C. work in groups on one workstation
D. conduct as many searches as possible at one time
27.
At any one time, students may use a library workstation for
A. half an hour
B. one hour
C. two hours
D. an unlimited time
Answer:
Answer:
15. B
16. G
17. F
18. E
19. A
20. F
21. G
22. C
23. B
24. A
25. A
26. B
27. B
Show/ Hide Answers
Do you need answer explanations to those questions?
Visit "
Answer Explanation - Bramley College & Using the Internet and CD-ROM databases.
"
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

GT Reading
IELTS GT reading Sample
Prev
Next