×
Search ielts-writing.info:
IELTS Reading Sample (Academic) #10
Reading Tip
Skip any questions you are not sure about, rather than wasting too much 
 time on a particular question. You can come back to the missing answers 
 later.
Remember to answer all the questions using information from the passages. 
 Whether or not you are knowledgeable about the topic should not make any 
 difference to your answers.
Do not leave answers blank if you run out of time: guess the answers where 
 you can, as there is a chance you will get some right. This is especially 
 true for multiple-choice questions, matching exercises and other questions 
 where you have limited answer options.
Reading paper for this section
Questions 1-3
Choose the
TWO
best answers according to the text, and write the letters
A-E
in boxes 1-3 on your
answer sheet
.
1
The Aboriginal demand that bones be returned to Australia is based on which
TWO
ideas?
A
The rightful place for the remains is Australia.
B
Britain had no right to take the remains.
C
The remains have religious significance for Aborigines.
D
Some remains have already been returned.
E
Aboriginal ancestors cannot find peace unless their remains are laid to rest there.
2
Which
TWO
factors might cause problems when it comes to returning the remains?
A
Scottish and English law does not allow museums to return objects.
B
It is not clear what will happen to the remains once they have been returned.
C
The remains are scientifically important and need to be studied.
D
Not all the Australian artefacts are human remains.
E
Some museums do not have the right to return objects to their countries of origin.
3
Which
TWO
points may help to speed up the process of returning the remains?
A
The British government is going to discuss the return of Aboriginal items.
B
Some items have already been returned to their countries of origin.
C
There is already some sympathy to the Aborigines' claims in the world of archaeology.
D
Not all the Australian artefacts are human remains.
E
The remains have religious significance for Aborigines.
Reading Tip
With any matching type question, the questions are not in the same order 
 as in the text. A good strategy is to circle or underline the names of each 
 of the people in the text, read what they say carefully and match what they 
 say with the statements in the questions. NB You will be told if you need 
 to use any of the people more than once and there may be people you do not 
 need to use.
Questions 4-9
Classify the following opinions as referring to
A
The National college of Surgeons
B
Stevie McCoy
C
Dr William Cowell Bell
D
Lady Amanda Spurway
E
Ewan Mather
Write the correct letter
A, B, C, D
or
E
in boxes 4-9 on your answer sheet.
4
No country would allow the bones of its citizens to be used for scientific purposes in another country.
5
The Glover Museum is ready to return its Aboriginal bones.
6
Australian remains are a useful resource for scientific study.
7
It would be a problem to accurately identify the human remains.
8
Many Aboriginal remains in Britain have been made into artefacts.
9
Discrepancies in the laws of different countries can hinder the return of relics.
Questions 10-13
Complete the following paragraph based on information in Reading Passage using
ONE
or
TWO WORDS
from the Reading Passage for each answer.
Write your answers in boxes 10 -13 on your answer sheet.
Aborigines believe that the remains should be returned for 
 a number of reasons. First is the fact that the relics were taken during the period 
 when Australia was a
10
. 
 The Aborigine belief that their ancestors can only
11
if their bones are returned is a further 
 factor. Thirdly, the restitution of the remains is an issue of human rights. However, 
 objectors who oppose the return of the artefacts point out that not only is there 
 a
12
problem, but 
 also that the remains constitute an important
13
in studying the lifestyle of the Aborigines.
CHECK ANSWERS
« Previous
Next »

CONTACT US
IELTS QUESTIONS
LIFE IN THE UK TEST
The reading, writing and listening practice tests on this website have been designed to resemble the format of the IELTS test as closely as possible. They are not, however, real IELTS tests; they are designed to practise exam technique to help students to face the IELTS test with confidence and to perform to the best of their ability.
While using this site, you agree to have read and accepted our terms of use, cookie and privacy policy.
Dear readers,
This is to inform you that we have moved to a new domain,
https://www.ielts-writing.info/EXAM/
.
Our old domain, https://www.ielts-exam.net/ will remain active till the time we migrate all our content to the new domain.
We look forward to your continuing support.
OK, I understand